Letter of Transmittal	Correctly formatted letter addressed to the specific decisionmaking group. The message focuses on the big picture, providing the key information needed to determine whether to read the full report.	FALSE	11	Exceeds Expectations	9		Meets Expectations	Correctly formatted & addressed correspondence that summarizes the key information needed to decide whether to read the full report. Placed as the first document in the report file.	6	Almost There	Generally follows the correspondence format and is addressed to someone in the organization, but may be missing minor elements such as a complete address block or a clear subject line. The summary of key information is somewhat rushed or incomplete. Placed as the first document in the report file.	4	Needs Work	Has major errors in the correspondence format, is addressed incorrectly or vaguely, or does not focus on the big picture. The content is disorganized or missing critical information needed for decision-making. Is not placed as the first document in the report file.	0	Missing or Incomplete	No letter or memo is submitted, or the submission does not fulfill the basic requirements for format, audience, or purpose.
Title Page	Includes a specific title, information on whom the report has been prepared for and on who has prepared the report. The report title clearly indicates the subject and scope of the report.	FALSE	10	Exceeds Expectations	9		Meets Expectations	Includes a title, prepared for and prepared by details, and an accurate date. Title fully reflects the subject and scope of the report.	6	Almost There	May have a vague or overly broad title or is missing one required element.	4	Needs Work	Uses an unclear or generic title, and/or is missing or uses incorrect identifying information (such as the preparer or intended audience).	0	Missing	No title page submitted.
Executive Summary	Includes a concise executive summary that previews purpose, scope, and findings	FALSE	11	Exceeds Expectations	9		Meets Expectations	Summarizes the purpose, scope, and findings clearly.	6	Almost Meets Expectations	Covers purpose, scope, and findings, but may briefly or unclearly address one area.	4	Needs Work	Is one of the required areas (purpose, scope, or findings); OR is unclear, disorganized, or too vague.	0	Missing or Incomplete	No executive summary submitted.
Introduction	Defines topic, purpose, audience, and scope; provides clear background for non-experts.	FALSE	11	Exceeds Expectations	9	 	Meets Expectations	Defines topic, purpose, audience, and scope clearly.	6	Almost There	Covers topic but may miss a minor detail or use vague or overly technical language occasionally.	5	Needs Work	Lacks focus or reader orientation. Omits one or more of the required elements (topic, purpose, audience, and scope)	0	Missing	Missing or incomplete introduction.
Discussion	Presents a well-structured, logically organized Discussion section that uses clear subheadings and thoroughly explains the topic with accurate, objective detail (definitions, background, examples, and relevant perspectives).	FALSE	11	Exceeds Expectations	9	 	Meets Expectations	Structures the content logically and consistently in ways that supports readers understanding well. Uses subheadings to organize the section.	6	Almost There	Generally organized with consistent subheadings, but includes minor structural issues, weak transitions, or uneven depth or clarity in explanation.	5	Needs Work	Lacks clear organization and/or adequate subheadings; provides limited, unclear, or insufficiently supported explanation.	0	Missing	Missing or incomplete Discussion section or inappropriate structure for the section.
Visual Aids	Includes 4+ relevant visuals (including 2+ data visualizations) with captions and textual integration.	FALSE	11	Exceeds Expectations	9	 	Meets Expectations	Includes 4+ appropriate visuals, correctly captioned and integrated in the text before they appear in the document. Provides documentation for visuals made by others.	6	Almost There	Presents visuals that relate to the topics in the text, but 1 or 2 may lack captions or may not be mentioned or explained in the document.	4	Needs Work	Does not explain purpose of visuals in the text of the document and/or omits captions or references.	0	Missing	Includes no visuals, unrelated visuals, unreadable visuals, or fewer than the required number of visuals.
Conclusion	Summarizes main findings and emphasizes significance; offers closure without argument or persuasion.	FALSE	11	Exceeds Expectations	9	 	Meets Expectations	Summarizes report accurately and provides closure.	6	Almost There	Provides basic summary but may lack cohesion or significance May lack a key point.	5	Needs Work	Weak or abrupt conclusion that may be missing key points and/or adds inappropriate recommendations, suggestions, or advice.	0	Missing	No conclusion or summary.
Source Use & Documentation	Uses 6–10 credible sources; integrates and cites accurately in discipline style.	FALSE	11	Exceeds Expectations	10		Meets Expectations	Uses required number of credible sources and integrates them into the text. Includes correctly formatted in-text and bibliographic citations.	6	Almost There	Uses credible sources but minor citation or integration errors.	4	Needs Work	Uses a source that is not credible or not integrated and/or uses incorrectly formatted citations.	0	Missing	Includes fewer than 5 credible, integrated sources and/or includes no or inadequate documentation.
Objectivity, Plain Language, & Tone	Maintains neutral tone; presents multiple expert perspectives without bias. Uses plain language, clear explanations, and definitions for non-experts.	FALSE	11	Exceeds Expectations	9		Meets Expectations	Maintains neutral tone; balanced expert perspectives Explains complex ideas for readers well. Uses plain language throughout Defines all necessary terms.	6	Almost There	Includes mostly objective perspective and tone, but occasionally uses biased wording. Uses complicated, overly technical, wordy, and/or repetitive phrasing occasionally.	5	Needs Work	Uses frequently subjective perspective or content and/or tone; Does not support content or claims. Uses language that is too technical or confusing frequently.	0	Missing	Lacks objectivity in perspective or content and/or fails to maintain objective tone. No evidence of audience awareness.
Document Design & Use of CRAP Design Principles	Uses headings, lists, spacing, and paragraphing. Uses CRAP design principles, fonts, chunking, and other formatting elements effectively to increase readability.	FALSE	11	Exceeds Expectations	9		Meets Expectations	Uses accurate and appropriate formatting. Formats headings, spacing, and CRAP design principles consistently. Uses lists, horizontal rules, and boxes as effective visual elements.	6	Almost There	May include minor formatting errors and/or includes minor errors in headings, paragraphing, spacing, or application of CRAP design principles.	4	Needs Work	Uses incorrect formatting, inadequate contrast between headings and text, large paragraphs, and/or inaccurate spacing. Inconsistently applies CRAP design principles.	0	Missing	Does not meet formatting or design requirements.

