Criterion	LongDesc	Rating1	Pts1	Rating2	Pts2	Rating3	Pts3	Rating4	Pts4	Rating5	Pts5
Our proposal focuses on a website that meets all selection requirements.	Our proposal focuses on a website that uses English, that fits with the VT Principles of Community, that includes at least 8 to 12 webpages, that is managed by a specific person, and that was not designed or written by Traci.	Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1
Our proposal is written in standard memo format and document design.	Our proposal is written in standard memo format and document design, with appropriate spacing, headings, and page numbers, including the following: Single space within section paragraphs, and Double space between sections and between paragraphs.	Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1
Our proposal includes an Introduction section that meets all requirements.	Our proposal includes an Introduction section that draws the reader in by providing facts, telling a story, or another strategy, that persuades the reader to read the rest of the proposal and approve the project, that introduces the intended subject of your team management project (providing the name of the website and linking to it) and that ends the introduction with a purpose statement.	Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1
Our proposal includes a Project Overview and Rationale section section that meets all requirements.	Our proposal includes a Project Overview and Rationale section that reintroduces and provides information about the intended subject of your Recommendation Report, that explains the following details of your proposal (improving the website you’ve chosen): Defines the subject of your project, Indicates what the project involves, and Explains why the project is important.	Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1
Our proposal includes a Project Methodology/Resources section that meets all requirements.	Our proposal includes a Project Methodology/Resources section that indicates methods by which you plan to conduct research into the projected subject (interviews, on-site research, questionnaires, surveys, traditional research methods) and that lists any key information (i.e., articles, books, videos) that you know you will be using and provides a brief summary of each.	Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1
Our proposal includes a Project Audience section that meets all requirements.	Our proposal includes a Project Audience section that identifies the specific audience(s) to whom the project will be addressed and that indicates what considerations we must make for this audience (such as language, visuals, and so on). Tip: The audience is not Traci. It is the person who can decide to implement the ideas in the Recommendation Report.	Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1
Our proposal includes a Personnel section that meets all requirements.	Our proposal includes a Personnel section that provides brief bios of your group members, emphasizing how you are each qualified to pursue this subject and that indicates the roles each team member will fulfill for the Recommendation Report.	Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1
Our proposal includes a Project Timetable section that meets all requirements.	Our proposal includes a Project Timetable section that introduces your schedule with some general details on the most significant date, establishes a rough deadline for each major stage of the project, and includes a Gantt chart.	Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1
Our proposal includes a Conclusion section that reiterates your subject and why it’s important and that provides contact info for the team leader.		Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1
Our proposal uses graphics and design elements that will make the subject and the document itself more visually enticing to the reader and hold their attention.	Graphics and design elements can include: bullet lists, headings and subheadings, color, font type, font weight, and font size, horizontal rules, and boxes.	Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1
Our proposal includes at least one illustration, and it integrates the visuals with the text in the document.	Our proposal includes at least one illustration, and all illustrations that make the subject compelling and are not decorative illustrations. Our proposal includes textual references to visuals, and it wraps text around visuals.	Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1
Our proposal uses footnotes to cite any sources used in the proposal and uses a consistent style throughout the proposal.		Exceeds Expectations	5	Yes	4	Almost There	3	Needs Work	2	Missing	1

